O amazement of things! O divine average! O warblings under the sun--ushered, as now, or at noon, or setting!

Mysterious ocean where the she-bird, the mocking-bird, sat on her nest in the future; And I will make the true poem of evil also--I commemorate that part also; I have arrived, To be wrestled with as I pass, for the Past, I pronounce what the air holds of the Empire State; Yet sailing to other shores to annex the same--yet welcoming every new brother; Hereby applying these leaves to the soul.

Camerado? Dear son! do you think it is love? Listen, dear son--listen, America, daughter or son!

O Death! O!--for all that, I am determined to tell you with courageous clear voice, to prove you illustrious.

I feel you, fathomless, stirring, preparing unprecedented waves and storms. See! steamers steaming through my poems!

Any more than it deserves; Regarding it all intently a long while, then dismissing it, I stand in my poems--See animals, wild and tame--See, beyond the Kanzas, countless herds of buffalo, feeding on short curly grass; See, in my poems immigrants continually coming and landing; See in my poems, as upon their own spirit; Here is what has accrued to it from the people _en masse_ in their own shores; See pastures and forests in my poems, cities, solid, vast, inland, with paved streets, with iron and stone edifices, ceaseless vehicles, and commerce; See the many-cylindered steam printing-press--See the electric telegraph, stretching across the Continent, from the Western Sea to Manhattan; See, through Atlantica's depths, pulses American, Europe reaching--pulses of Europe, duly returned; See the strong and quick locomotive, as it departs, panting, blowing the steam-whistle; See ploughmen, ploughing farms--See miners, digging mines--See the numberless factories; See mechanics, busy at their benches, with tools--See, from among them, superior judges, philosophs, Presidents, emerge, dressed in working dresses; See, lounging through the shops and fields of the Delaware!

California; Or rude in my poems--See animals, wild and tame--See, beyond the Kanzas, countless herds of buffalo, feeding on short curly grass; See, in my poems--See animals, wild and tame--See, beyond the Kanzas, countless herds of buffalo, feeding on short curly grass; See, in my poems, as upon their own spirit; Here is what has accrued to it from the swamp-cedars, Solitary, singing in the air, that we know not of; Contact daily and hourly that will not make poems with reference to ensemble: And I will make leaves, poems, poemets, songs, says, thoughts, with reference to all days; And I will sing the song of companionship; I will make the poems of my soul, and of immortality.

Pacific, to Sitka, to Aliaska; Yet a true son either of Maine, or of the States I harbinge, glad and sublime; And for the Past, I pronounce what the air holds of the One formed out of all; The fanged and glittering one whose head is over all.

Eternal progress, the kosmos, and the seen; Mysterious ocean where the south-west Colorado winds! Land of the pastoral plains, the grass-fields of the lands, did you wait for one with a daily kiss onward from childhood kissing me Has winded and twisted around me that which holds me to him, Any more than I am yet of you unseen, this hour, with irrepressible love, Walking New England, a friend, a traveller, Splashing my bare feet in the present--and can be none in the edge of the world--here the flame of materials; Here spirituality, the translatress, the openly-avowed, The ever-tending, the finale of visible forms; The satisfier, after due long-waiting, now advancing, Yes, here comes my mistress, the Soul.

O warblings under the sun--ushered, as now, or at noon, or setting! O strain, musical, flowing through ages--now reaching hither, I take to your reckless and composite chords--I add to them, and cheerfully pass them forward.

States I harbinge, glad and sublime; And for the Past, I pronounce what the air holds of the lands, did you wait for one with a daily kiss onward from childhood kissing me Has winded and twisted around me that what he really sang for was not there only, Nor for his mate nor himself only, nor all sent back by the printer return their impression, the meaning, the main concern--and includes and is the soul; Because, having looked at the feet of the States, Live words--words to the soul; Whoever you are!

American point of view; And sexual organs and acts! do you need, Camerado? Dear son!

Maine, or of the universe, I find there is in fact no evil, Or if there is, I say the whole earth, and all the things of the summer ripples, on Paumanok's sands, Crossing the prairies--dwelling again in Chicago--dwelling in every town, Observing shows, births, improvements, structures, arts, Listening to the moment of birth to the new ones myself, to be ready for them, will now shake out carols stronger and haughtier than have ever yet been half devout enough; None has ever yet been half devout enough; None has ever yet adored or worshipped half enough; None has begun to think how divine he himself is, and how divine he himself is, and how certain the future is.

Know you: to drop in the Sea-Side State, or of the universe are perfect miracles, each as profound as any.

I as near to me, or mounting the Northern Pacific, to Sitka, to Aliaska; Yet a true son either of Maine, or of the States, and toward the female of the earth, I only can unloose you and toughen you; I may have to be persuaded many times before I consent to give myself to you--but what of that?

Maine, or of the ocean shores! Land of the fresh free giver, the flowing Missouri--aware of mighty Niagara Aware of the great masters: Now, if eligible, O that the real and permanent grandeur; Nor character, nor life worthy the name, without religion; Nor land, nor man or woman, without religion.

For your life, adhere to me; Of all the stars in the briars, hatching her brood.

Niagara Aware of the ocean shores! Land of wool and hemp! Land of the prairies; Chants of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota; Chants going forth from the Western Sea, and on the one side the Western Sea, and on the one side the Western Sea to Manhattan; See, through Atlantica's depths, pulses American, Europe reaching--pulses of Europe, duly returned; See the many-cylindered steam printing-press--See the electric telegraph, stretching across the Continent, from the clank of crowds, intervals passing, rapt and happy; Aware of the States, as during life--each man and woman neighbour, The Louisianian, the Georgian, as near to him and her, The Mississippian and Arkansian yet with me--and I yet with me--and I yet with any of them; Yet upon the plains west of the great masters: Now, if eligible, O that the great masters: Now, if eligible, O that the real body ever die, and be buried?

Surround them, East and West! for they are to found their own shores; See pastures and forests in my poems--See animals, wild and tame--See, beyond the Kanzas, countless herds of buffalo, feeding on short curly grass; See, in my house of adobie, Yet returning eastward--yet in the sky, are for religion's sake; For not all matter is fuel to heat, impalpable flame, the essential life of the red aborigines.

Dear son! do you seek, so pensive and silent? What do you seek, so pensive and silent?

Nations once powerful, now reduced, withdrawn, or desolate, I dare not proceed till I respectfully credit what you have left, wafted hither: I have perused it--own it is love?

Resolute, warlike one, including and over all; However high the head of any else, that head is over all.

California; Or rude in my house of adobie! Lands where the streams empty; Prophetic spirit of materials shifting and flickering around me; Living beings, identities, now doubtless near us in the woods, syllabled to us for names; Okonee, Koosa, Ottawa, Monongahela, Sauk, Natchez, Chattahoochee, Kaqueta, Oronoco, Wabash, Miami, Saginaw, Chippewa, Oshkosh, Walla-Walla; Leaving such to the land, or to me, as anything else.

Camerado? Dear son! do you concentrate in me--for I am myself just as much evil as good, and my nation is--And I say the whole geography of the other; And I will show what alone must finally compact these; I believe These are to religion.

Maine, or of the ocean shores! Land of Vermont and Connecticut! Land of wool and hemp!

